Development Tools for Beginner Corda Developers: Corda Network Bootstrapper and Corda CLI

As a beginner Corda developer, getting started with blockchain development can seem like a daunting task. However, the Corda platform provides a range of powerful tools that can simplify the process and make your journey into blockchain development a smoother one. In this article, we will introduce you to two essential tools that every beginner Corda developer should be familiar with: the Corda Network Bootstrapper and Corda CLI. These tools play a crucial role in managing and deploying Corda nodes, enabling you to build and test blockchain applications with confidence.

Corda Network Bootstrapper
The Corda Network Bootstrapper is a tool designed to simplify the process of setting up a Corda network by automating the creation and configuration of nodes. Whether you're working on a small development network or preparing for a larger production deployment, the Corda Network Bootstrapper can save you valuable time and effort. Let's explore the key features and steps involved in using the Corda Network Bootstrapper.

Key Features
Automated Node Configuration: The bootstrapper streamlines the process of creating and configuring Corda nodes. It generates the necessary configuration files, keys, and certificates for each node.

Network Map Service: The bootstrapper sets up a network map service that provides information about the participating nodes and their respective identity details.

Efficient Deployment: With just a few commands, you can deploy a complete Corda network, reducing the time and complexity of manual node setup.

Using the Corda Network Bootstrapper
Here's a step-by-step guide to using the Corda Network Bootstrapper:

Install Corda Tools: Before using the Corda Network Bootstrapper, ensure that you have Corda tools installed. You can download Corda tools from the official Corda website.

Configure Node Configuration: Prepare a node.conf file with the desired configuration settings for each node, including the node's legal name, IP address, and port.

Prepare Network Parameters: Generate the network parameters by running the following command:


java -jar corda-tools-network-bootstrapper.jar


Generate Node Keys and Certificates: Use the bootstrapper to generate the necessary keys and certificates for each node in the network:


java -jar corda-tools-network-bootstrapper.jar --dir <networkDirectory> --nodes <numberOfNodes>


Replace <networkDirectory> with the directory where you want to store the node configurations and keys. Specify the number of nodes you want to create.

Start the Nodes: Start the Corda nodes using the generated configurations. This can be done manually or using scripts, depending on your preference.

Network Map Service: The Corda Network Bootstrapper also sets up a network map service. Make sure the network map service is running to provide node information.

Corda CLI (Command-Line Interface)
The Corda CLI is a command-line tool that enables you to interact with Corda nodes and networks through a simple and intuitive interface. It offers a range of commands that allow you to perform various tasks, from querying transaction data to managing flows. The Corda CLI is an indispensable tool for developers who want to interact with Corda nodes without the need for complex coding. Let's dive into the features and functionalities of the Corda CLI.

Key Features
Node Interaction: The Corda CLI allows you to interact with Corda nodes by executing commands for querying transactions, states, contracts, and more.

Flow Management: You can use the Corda CLI to manage flows, initiate transactions, and monitor their progress.

Network Interaction: The CLI provides commands for interacting with the network, such as querying the network map service and sending transactions between nodes.

Using the Corda CLI
Here's a quick guide to using the Corda CLI:

Install Corda CLI: Install the Corda CLI by downloading the appropriate distribution package from the official Corda website.

Connect to a Node: Use the corda-cli command to connect to a Corda node:


corda-cli connect --host <nodeHost> --port <nodePort> --username <username> --password <password>


Replace <nodeHost>, <nodePort>, <username>, and <password> with the appropriate values.

Execute Commands: Once connected to a node, you can execute various commands. For example:

Use run vaultQuery contractStateType: <contractType> to query contract states.
Use run flow start <flowName> to initiate a flow.
Use run transactions to view transaction details.
Disconnect: After you've completed your tasks, use the disconnect command to disconnect from the node.

Conclusion
As a beginner Corda developer, familiarizing yourself with tools like the Corda Network Bootstrapper and Corda CLI is essential for efficient and effective blockchain development. These tools simplify the process of setting up and managing Corda nodes, allowing you to focus more on building innovative blockchain applications. By following the steps outlined in this article, you'll be well on your way to harnessing the power of Corda and contributing to the exciting world of enterprise blockchain solutions. So go ahead, explore these tools, and embark on your journey to becoming a proficient Corda developer.